---
category: 1
question: "1.1.1"
question_text: "Do you have a business policy document?"
score: "0"
---

A business plan will not just help increase the chances of keeping your company financially healthy it is also likely to help you deliver good quality and healthy products more consistently to your customers. We would recommend identifying clear goals for your business and explore existing models and advice from business schools or local business bureaus or associations or the SUN Business Network.

Harvard Business Review noted: 'The pressure to crack open markets particularly those at the middle and bottom of the pyramid, is driving a surge in business-model innovation. In addition, the rise of new technology-based and low-cost rivals is threatening incumbents, reshaping industries, and redistributing profits. Indeed, the ways by which companies create and capture value through their business models is undergoing a radical transformation worldwide.

Yet most enterprises haven’t fully come to grips with how to compete through business models. Our studies over the past seven years show that much of the problem lies in companies’ unwavering focus on creating innovative models and evaluating their efficacy in isolation—just as engineers test new technologies or products. However, the success or failure of a company’s business model depends largely on how it interacts with models of other players in the industry. (Almost any business model will perform brilliantly if a company is lucky enough to be the only one in a market.) Because companies build them without thinking about the competition, they routinely deploy doomed business models.'    <https://hbr.org/2011/01/how-to-design-a-winning-business-model>
