---
category: 1
question: "1.4.2"
question_text: "If yes, how are your products analyzed?"
score: "NA"
---

Chemical analysis of food samples carried out in analytical laboratories is typically the preferred method for creating food composition data. Ideally, the methods used for analysis should be previously proven to be reliable and reproducible, i.e., methods recommended by an organization such as:
• The Codex Committee on Methods of Analysis and Sampling (CCMAS), that adopted recommended methods of analysis and sampling that are amended regularly, lastly in 2019.
<http://www.fao.org/fao-who-codexalimentarius/sh-proxy/en/?lnk=1&url=https%253A%252F%252Fworkspace.fao.org%252Fsites%252Fcodex%252FStandards%252FCXS%2B234-1999%252FCXS_234e.pdf>,

• the Association of Official Analytical Chemists (AOAC), or;
• the International Organisation for Standardisation (ISO).

As it is not feasible to determine the nutritional composition of a final product using chemical analysis for every nutrient in every item of food or ingredient used, another approach that is reliable is to impute or calculate values of individual ingredients or foods from data within pre-existing food composition databases – the ideal situation would be to use databases created in your country or a country with similar food groups.

Food composition values can also be estimated from other sources by ‘borrowing’ or ‘adopting’ nutrient values originally generated by another organisation. Possible sources for borrowed data are Food Composition Data from other countries, nutrient analyses from scientific literature or other manufacturers’ data (e.g., from food labels). Data will need to be evaluated in terms of both data quality and applicability of foods before incorporating it. For example, fortification values can differ between countries so a fortified breakfast cereal for one country’s FCD might not be appropriate for another country.
