---
category: 4
question: "4.1"
question_text: "Do you show the ingredients on the packaging?"
score: "5"
---

Please provide full ingredient list on your packaging.

Nutrition labelling provides label information about a food’s key nutrient content to inform consumers about the nutritional quality of the foods they purchase. Food regulators around the world establish nutrition labelling regulations that apply in their jurisdiction, Codex Alimentarius guidelines on labelling pre-packaged foods are usually used as a basis for regulations. See link: <https://www.fao.org/3/y2770e/y2770e06.htm>
<https://www.fao.org/fao-who-codexalimentarius/sh-proxy/es/?lnk=1&url=https%253A%252F%252Fworkspace.fao.org%252Fsites%252Fcodex%252FStandards%252FCXS%2B1-1985%252FCXS_001e.pdf>

Regulations determine the most appropriate information to appear on the label in terms of public health needs, consumer understanding and food industry capacity.

Codex nutrition labelling requires the mandatory declaration of energy, protein, fat, saturated fat, available carbohydrates, total sugars, and sodium or salt (as sodium equivalents). Vitamins and minerals are declared either voluntarily or due to a label claim; however, national regulation may also require key nutrients to be declared because of their nutritional importance.

Under some national/international laws it is mandatory to declare certain nutrients because of their nutritional significance. Other nutrients may be declared at a manufacturer’s discretion or as a condition of making a nutrient content label claim.  Codex guidelines recommend that nutrients should be always placed on product labels if there is a relevant claim made on the product packaging.

Nutrition labelling is presented in a standardized format on pre-packaged foods to enable consumers to find the information consistently across products. However, the specific format and information details vary according to national needs. A common format is a matrix table with a list of nutrients in the first column and their respective amounts in the food shown in one or more columns across the table. Nutrient amounts may be shown in metric units and/or as a percentage of a Nutrient Reference Value in one or more quantities of food such as 100 g or 100 ml, or a described portion size.
