---
category: 4
question: "4.2.1"
question_text: "Do you show the nutritional information (per 100 gram or 100 ml) on the package?"
score: "2,5"
---

Please show full nutritional information, per 100 gram/ml on the packaging. Nutrient amounts may be shown in metric units and/or as a percentage of an NRV in one or more quantities of food such as 100 g or 100 ml, or a described portion size. Codex Guidelines on Nutrition Labelling should be followed. The two Codex nutrition labelling guidelines are:

1. Guidelines on Nutrition Labelling (CXG 2-1985)
2. Guidelines for Use of Nutrition and Health Claims (CXG 23-1997).

Nutrition labelling provides consumers with information about the key nutrient content of foods in a standardized format. Codex regards nutrients as any substance normally consumed as a constituent of food:
a. which provides energy; or
b. which is needed for growth, development, and maintenance of life; or
c. a deficit of which will cause characteristic biochemical or physiological changes to occur.
Nutrients include energy, macronutrients such as protein, fat and carbohydrate, and vitamins and minerals.

Declaring a list of nutrients and their amounts on a products nutrition label may be mandatory, voluntarily, or required as a condition of making a nutrition and/or health claim. Codex nutrition labelling requires the mandatory declaration of energy, protein, fat, saturated fat, available carbohydrates, total sugars and sodium or salt (as sodium equivalents). Vitamins and minerals are declared either voluntarily or due to a label claim; however, national regulation may also require key nutrients to be declared because of their nutritional importance. Codex nutrient reference values –requirements (NRVs-R) in nutrition labelling can be used to convert a nutrient amount in metric units into a percentage of daily requirement.   More info is available in this publication on the use of Codex reference values especially for vitamins, minerals, and protein:  Lewis, J. 2019. Codex nutrient reference values. Rome. FAO and WHO. <http://www.fao.org/3/ca6969en/CA6969EN.pdf>
